# Birds_of_Prey_CNN_Classifier
Convolutional Neural Network Classifier on two types of Birds of Prey (Eagle / Vulture)
<p>For a human, the differences between eagles and vultures are very easy to learn. Eagles have giant beaks, heavy, feathered heads, bony ridges above their eyes giving them a stern prosecutorial look, long strong wings (pound for pound, an eagle's wing is stronger than an airplane wing). If you held thirty eagle wings in your hand, they would weigh less than a penny. Then entire skeleton of a bald eagle weighs a bit more than half a pound. Vultures too have distinctive features, heavy bodies, long sinuous necks, heads with very little to no feathering, huge wings, up to 11 feet for the largest raptor of all, the Andean Condor.   </p>
<p>Their habits are also diverse. Eagles are solitary, territorial creatures. If you see two eagles together, they are a mated pair, and good luck telling the genders apart! Eagles are deadly hunters and most of the time carry their prey back to the nest to eat. Only if it's too heavy to carry will an eagle eat at the kill site. Vultures, by contrast are social birds. If you see a group of large birds hanging out together in a tree or at a carcass, you can bet it's a group of vultures. While they are feeding, they are called a wake. Vultures sometimes kill their prey, but mostly, they are scavengers, feeding on the dead carcasses left by another predator. Vultures do not have strong legs to carry meat back to their nests, so they feast at the site of the kill.</p>

## Curating Images to Train my CNN
I needed a large quantity of images for my classes, at least 1000 per class for the train set. The easiest method to gather images is to use the Flickr api. Follow these instructions if you want to build your own model:

1) Obtain a flickr api key / secret here: https://www.flickr.com/services/api/misc.api_keys.html (once downloaded, create a JSON file or copy my credentials.json file and put your values in the appropriate blanks)
2) Copy the scraper.py file in /src from https://github.com/antiboredom/flickr-scrape - I did not create a virtual environment for the scraping. using this file, you can simply run the command line from your terminal in the format: <br><i> python scraper.py --search "SEARCH TERM" --max_pages 1 </i><br>(this will give you 1000 image links)
3) This code will create an images directory if one does not exist, and then create a subdirectory based on the search term or group name used in the search, and it will place a JSON file into that directory with as many pages of images requested.
4) Open each JSON file with pandas dataframe read_json functionality. Use a list of directories and a loop of dataframes to scrape the images (see birdsofprey.ipynb in /src)
5) Curate your images! Even when using a group, which is a curated topic-centered collection, there is a lot of junk. Images fuzzy or too far away, or things that don't really match your needs, like the Philadelphia Eagles football team!
